README.md, before:

#Rancher.io

Rancher is an open source project that provides a complete platform for operating Docker in production. It provides infrastructure services such as multi-host networking, global and local load balancing, and volume snapshots. It integrates native Docker management capabilities such as Docker Machine and Docker Swarm. It offers a rich user experience that enables devops admins to operate Docker in production at large scale.

## Why?

Developers and operations teams love Docker because it provides a consist computing platform that extends the entire devops life cycle, from laptop, QA, pre-production, to production environment. Rancher additionally implements consistent networking and storage services for Docker containers to operate on any bare-metal servers, VMware clusters, and public/private clouds. By integrating Rancher’s networking and storage services with native Docker management capabilities in an intuitive UI, Rancher offers a complete production platform for Docker.

## Installation

Rancher is deployed as a set of Docker containers.  Running Rancher is a simple as launching two containers.  One container as the management server and another container on a node as an agent.  You can install the containers in following approaches.

* [Manually](#installation)
* [Vagrant](#vagrant)
* [Puppet](https://github.com/nickschuch/puppet-rancher) (Thanks @nickschuch) 

### Requirements

* Docker 1.4.1+
* Ubuntu 14.04 or CoreOS 494+
    * *Note: These are the only tested distributions at the moment, but most modern Linux distributions will work*

### Management Server

    docker run -d -p 8080:8080 rancher/server

### Register Docker Nodes

    docker run --rm -it --privileged -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock rancher/agent http://MANAGEMENT_IP:8080

The UI/API is available on the exposed port 8080.

## UI

The UI is available by accessing the base HTTP URL of the management server.  For example, http://server:8080

![UI](docs/host.png)

## API

The API is available by accessing the `/v1` HTTP path of the management server.  For example, http://server:8080/v1

Rancher has its own API for infrastructure management tasks.  For Docker related operations, the intention is to support the Docker CLI.  That work is currently in progress.

### Vagrant

If you want to use Vagrant to run this on your laptop just clone the repo and to do `vagrant up` and then access port 8080 for the UI.

## Status

We've just recently kicked off this project.  Currently Rancher.io is able to provide a basic implementation of overlay networking and cross-server Docker links.  A lot of work has been done to put in a solid orchestration platform to control all the functionality we wish to do.  Now that that framework is in place expect this project to produce a high amount of features over the next six months.

## Source Code

This repo is a meta-repo used for packaging.  The source code for Rancher is in other repos in the rancherio organization.  The majority of the code is in https://github.com/rancherio/cattle.

## Planned

* Storage
    * Docker volume management (create, delete, list)
    * Volume snapshot
    * Snapshot backup to S3/Object Store
    * Create volume from snapshot
* Networking
    * Security groups
    * Load balancing

Commit message:

Document the ports that should be opened

README.md, after:

#Rancher.io

Rancher is an open source project that provides a complete platform for operating Docker in production. It provides infrastructure services such as multi-host networking, global and local load balancing, and volume snapshots. It integrates native Docker management capabilities such as Docker Machine and Docker Swarm. It offers a rich user experience that enables devops admins to operate Docker in production at large scale.

## Why?

Developers and operations teams love Docker because it provides a consist computing platform that extends the entire devops life cycle, from laptop, QA, pre-production, to production environment. Rancher additionally implements consistent networking and storage services for Docker containers to operate on any bare-metal servers, VMware clusters, and public/private clouds. By integrating Rancher’s networking and storage services with native Docker management capabilities in an intuitive UI, Rancher offers a complete production platform for Docker.

## Installation

Rancher is deployed as a set of Docker containers.  Running Rancher is a simple as launching two containers.  One container as the management server and another container on a node as an agent.  You can install the containers in following approaches.

* [Manually](#installation)
* [Vagrant](#vagrant)
* [Puppet](https://github.com/nickschuch/puppet-rancher) (Thanks @nickschuch) 

### Requirements

* Docker 1.4.1+
* Ubuntu 14.04 or CoreOS 494+
    * *Note: These are the only tested distributions at the moment, but most modern Linux distributions will work*

### Management Server

    docker run -d -p 8080:8080 rancher/server

The UI and API are available on the exposed port `8080`.

### Register Docker Nodes

    docker run --rm -it --privileged -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock rancher/agent http://MANAGEMENT_IP:8080

Make sure that any security groups or firewalls allow traffic from the internet to the node on `TCP` ports `9345` and `9346`.

## UI

The UI is available by accessing the base HTTP URL of the management server.  For example, `http://server:8080/`

![UI](docs/host.png)

## API

The API is available by accessing the `/v1` HTTP path of the management server.  For example, `http://server:8080/v1`

Rancher has its own API for infrastructure management tasks.  For Docker related operations, the intention is to support the Docker CLI.  That work is currently in progress.

### Vagrant

If you want to use Vagrant to run this on your laptop just clone the repo and to do `vagrant up` and then access port 8080 for the UI.

## Status

We've just recently kicked off this project.  Currently Rancher.io is able to provide a basic implementation of overlay networking and cross-server Docker links.  A lot of work has been done to put in a solid orchestration platform to control all the functionality we wish to do.  Now that that framework is in place expect this project to produce a high amount of features over the next six months.

## Source Code

This repo is a meta-repo used for packaging.  The source code for Rancher is in other repos in the rancherio organization.  The majority of the code is in https://github.com/rancherio/cattle.

## Planned

* Storage
    * Docker volume management (create, delete, list)
    * Volume snapshot
    * Snapshot backup to S3/Object Store
    * Create volume from snapshot
* Networking
    * Security groups
    * Load balancing
