tests/README.md, before:

# Rancher Test Framework

The Rancher Test Framework provides tools for writing integrations and validation tests.  The framework manages interactions with the external services being tested and aids in cleaning up resources after a test is completed.  The framework is organized into three disciplines: framework, clients, and extensions.  The framework consists of a few core libraries used to make it easy to write homologous tests. See [extensions](#extensions) and [clients](#clients) for more details.

## Requirements

---

#### Integration
To run rancher integration tests you will need:
- a running instance of rancher with an accessible url
- a rancher access token for the admin user
- [golang 1.17](https://go.dev/doc/install)
- [k3d](https://k3d.io/v5.1.0/)

#### Validation
Validation tests have the same requirements as integration tests however different suites may need credentials for cloud providers.  Check the configs for your test suite for details.

## Concepts

---

### Integration vs Validation

Integration tests - Don't require any external configuration or access to any other external services. These should also be short running as they will run on every PR within CI. Integration tests do not need access keys to cloud providers to run.

Validation tests - Require access to external services, and needs to a config file to run them.

### Extensions

Extensions are functions that complete common operations used by tests.  Extensions should not require much configuration or support multiple behaviors.  Extensions should be simple enough that they can be used in many tests without needing to be tested themselves.

### Clients

Clients are used to create the resources in the tests. The advantage of the cients is they register the cleanups with sessions, making resource cleanup trivial. There are three clients; the rancher client, dynamic client, and the k3d client. The rancher client is used to create resources on a rancher instance. Given a host url, and a bearer token the rancher client communicates directly with the rancher instance. The dynamic client is used as means of communication on a downstream cluster, and used for kubernete resource management on that cluster. The k3d client is used to create a minimal k3d cluster, this is to give the integration tests the ability to test against a downstream cluster.

### Wait

Wait is used to monitor resources, and wait for specified conditions. There are multiple ways to wait for a resource. There is WatchWait that uses the watch.Interface of a resource to wait until the check function returns true. For more generic polling or waiting, the "k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/util/wait" package can be used.

### Sessions

Sessions are used to track resources created by tests.  A session allows cleanup functions to be registered while it is open.  Once a session is closed the cleanup functions will be called latest to oldest.  Sessions should be closed after a set of tests that use the same resources is completed.  This eliminates the need for each test to create and tear down its own resources allowing for more efficient reuse of some resources.  When pared with a client sessions are a powerful tool that can track and cleanup any resource a tests creates with no additional work from the developer.

### Configuration

Configuration is loaded from the yaml or json file described in `CATTLE_TEST_CONFIG`.  Configuration objects are loaded from their associated key in the configuration file.  Default values can also be set on configuration objects.


## How to Write Tests

---

Tests should be created under `tests/v2/integration` or `tests/v2/validation`, see [Integration vs Validation](#integration-vs-validation) for details. Tests can be grouped into files and packages however the developer sees fit.  When grouping tests a developer should make sure the test will be easy to find for the next developer and that it is grouped with other tests that would be run at the same time.  Within the files tests should be grouped into [Suites](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/stretchr/testify/suite).  A suite should share clients and a session across all it's tests.  A Suite's tests should all be testing the same functionality and reuse suite resources.  For example if we were writing tests that ensure project roles have appropriate access to project resources, a suite could contain all tests for every role and share a project across all tests. This will save time because each test will not need to create a project.  Tests should always use the framework clients when possible, this will ensure that any resources created by tests will be cleaned up and not interfere with other tests.  A test is responsible for cleaning up any resource it creates fully before the next test is run.  See [Sessions](#sessions) for how to track resources in tests.

Commit message:

Adding example test config file and upating readme

tests/README.md, after:

# Rancher Test Framework

The Rancher Test Framework provides tools for writing integrations and validation tests.  The framework manages interactions with the external services being tested and aids in cleaning up resources after a test is completed.  The framework is organized into three disciplines: framework, clients, and extensions.  The framework consists of a few core libraries used to make it easy to write homologous tests. See [extensions](#extensions) and [clients](#clients) for more details.

## Requirements

---

#### Integration
To run rancher integration tests you will need:
- a running instance of rancher with an accessible url
- a rancher access token for the admin user
- [golang 1.17](https://go.dev/doc/install)
- [k3d](https://k3d.io/v5.1.0/)

#### Validation
Validation tests have the same requirements as integration tests however different suites may need credentials for cloud providers.  Check the configs for your test suite for details.

## Concepts

---

### Integration vs Validation

Integration tests - Don't require any external configuration or access to any other external services. These should also be short running as they will run on every PR within CI. Integration tests do not need access keys to cloud providers to run.

Validation tests - Require access to external services, and needs to a config file to run them.

### Extensions

Extensions are functions that complete common operations used by tests.  Extensions should not require much configuration or support multiple behaviors.  Extensions should be simple enough that they can be used in many tests without needing to be tested themselves.

### Clients

Clients are used to create the resources in the tests. The advantage of the cients is they register the cleanups with sessions, making resource cleanup trivial. There are three clients; the rancher client, dynamic client, and the k3d client. The rancher client is used to create resources on a rancher instance. Given a host url, and a bearer token the rancher client communicates directly with the rancher instance. The dynamic client is used as means of communication on a downstream cluster, and used for kubernete resource management on that cluster. The k3d client is used to create a minimal k3d cluster, this is to give the integration tests the ability to test against a downstream cluster.

### Wait

Wait is used to monitor resources, and wait for specified conditions. There are multiple ways to wait for a resource. There is WatchWait that uses the watch.Interface of a resource to wait until the check function returns true. For more generic polling or waiting, the "k8s.io/apimachinery/pkg/util/wait" package can be used.

### Sessions

Sessions are used to track resources created by tests.  A session allows cleanup functions to be registered while it is open.  Once a session is closed the cleanup functions will be called latest to oldest.  Sessions should be closed after a set of tests that use the same resources is completed.  This eliminates the need for each test to create and tear down its own resources allowing for more efficient reuse of some resources.  When pared with a client sessions are a powerful tool that can track and cleanup any resource a tests creates with no additional work from the developer.

### Configuration

Configuration is loaded from the yaml or json file described in `CATTLE_TEST_CONFIG`.  Configuration objects are loaded from their associated key in the configuration file.  Default values can also be set on configuration objects. An example configuration file can be found in `example_config.yaml` - replace `$HOST` with the hostname of rancher, `$PORT` with the port that Rancher is running on, and `$TOKEN` with a valid token generated for an admin user.


## How to Write Tests

---

Tests should be created under `tests/v2/integration` or `tests/v2/validation`, see [Integration vs Validation](#integration-vs-validation) for details. Tests can be grouped into files and packages however the developer sees fit.  When grouping tests a developer should make sure the test will be easy to find for the next developer and that it is grouped with other tests that would be run at the same time.  Within the files tests should be grouped into [Suites](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/stretchr/testify/suite).  A suite should share clients and a session across all it's tests.  A Suite's tests should all be testing the same functionality and reuse suite resources.  For example if we were writing tests that ensure project roles have appropriate access to project resources, a suite could contain all tests for every role and share a project across all tests. This will save time because each test will not need to create a project.  Tests should always use the framework clients when possible, this will ensure that any resources created by tests will be cleaned up and not interfere with other tests.  A test is responsible for cleaning up any resource it creates fully before the next test is run.  See [Sessions](#sessions) for how to track resources in tests.
