tests/validation/readme.md, before:

# Validation scripts for Rancher

Validation tests are run in a similar way to integration tests.

From tests/validation dir:

* Setup virtualenv and enter it
* `pip install -r requirements_v3api.txt`
* Export any needed environment vars, many of these like `CATTLE_TEST_URL` are required. See below for more info.

Now run a test:
* File: `pytest -v -s tests/v3_api/test_app.py`
* Single test:`pytest -k test_tiller`

# General Notes about this framework current status:

## Linting
Uses [Flake8](http://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/) to lint your tests  

## ENV Variables:
If you add any new ENV variables, check the scripts/rke/configure.sh will pass them into the container for Jenkins. Running on your own machine, export these variables as needed.

### General
DEBUG defaults to 'false', Prints the output from kubectl and rke commands when 'true'

### Base Cloud Provider variables:
```
OS_VERSION defaults to 'ubuntu-16.04', Used to select which image to use
DOCKER_VERSION defaults to '1.12.6', Used to select image to use if DOCKER_INSTALLED is 'true'
DOCKER_INSTALLED defaults to 'true', When false, base image is used for OS_VERSION, and docker version DOCKER_VERSION is installed 
```

### Digital Ocean specific variables:
```
DO_ACCESS_KEY no default, your DO access key
```

### AWS specific variables:
```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID no default, your AWS access key id
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY no default, your AWS secret access key
AWS_SSH_KEY_NAME no default, the filename of the private key, e.i. jenkins-rke-validation.pem
AWS_CICD_INSTANCE_TAG defaults to 'rancher-validation', Tags the instance with CICD=AWS_CICD_INSTANCE_TAG
AWS_INSTANCE_TYPE defaults to 't3a.medium', selects the instance type and size
AWS_REGION no default, the region for your ec2 instances
AWS_SUBNET no default, the subnet for your ec2 instances
AWS_VPC no default, the VPC for your ec2 instances
AWS_SG no default, the SG for your ec2 instances
AWS_ZONE no default, the zone for your ec2 instances
AWS_IAM_PROFILE no default, the IAM profile for your ec2 instances
```

### Azure specific variables:
```
AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID no default, your Azure subscription id
AZURE_CLIENT_ID no default, your app / client id
AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET no default, your app / client secret
AZURE_TENANT_ID no default your Azure tenant id, for use with Azure cloud provider
```

### v3_api test variables:
```
CATTLE_TEST_URL no default. The Rancher server for test execution.
ADMIN_TOKEN no default. Required to create resources during test execution
RANCHER_CLEANUP_CLUSTER default true. Cleans up clusters after test execution
RANCHER_CLEANUP_PROJECT default true. Cleans up projects after test execution
RANCHER_CLUSTER_NAME no default. Some tests allow test resources to be created in a specific cluster. If not provided, tests will default to the first cluster found.
```
### vmwarevsphere_driver test
Because our vSphere servers are behind a VPN you will need to connect to the VPN and run these tests from your laptop
or run them from a Rancher installation inside of vSphere. When running locally on your laptop you will need to connect 
the VPN and start an ngrok tunnel and set your SERVER_URL by hand to get vSphere nodes to talk back to the Rancher Server

Environment variables for this test
```
CATTLE_TEST_URL no default. The Rancher server for test execution.
RANCHER_CLUSTER_NAME defaults to a random cluster name if not set
RANCHER_CLEANUP_CLUSTER defaults to "True", set to "False" to leave the cluster after the test
RANCHER_VSPHERE_USERNAME username used to login to vSphere Admin Interface
RANCHER_VSPHERE_PASSWORD password used to login to vSphere Admin Interface
RANCHER_VSPHERE_VCENTER URL of vCenter web interface
RANCHER_VSPHERE_VCENTER_PORT port of vCenter web interface, defaults to 443
RANCHER_ENGINE_INSTALL_URL defaults to https://get.docker.com/, docker installer engine script
RANCHER_CLONE_FROM defaults to ubuntu-bionic-18.04-cloudimg, vm to clone from.
RANCHER_RESOURCE_POOL defaults to the validation-tests pool resource pool to put the vms in
```

## RKE template defaults variables:
```
DEFAULT_K8S_IMAGE defaults to 'rancher/k8s:v1.8.7-rancher1-1', defaults the templates service images
DEFAULT_NETWORK_PLUGIN defaults to 'canal', defaults the templates to use the select network plugin
```

## Passing other pytest command line options
In the Jenkins job parameters PYTEST_OPTIONS can be used to pass additional command line options to pytest like test filtering or run in parallel:

Run tests methods that match 'install_roles'
PYTEST_OPTION = -k install_roles

Run in parallel:
PYTEST_OPTION = -n auto

Multiple options can be passed in '-k install_roles -n auto'

## Issue 316
Currently an issue with Ubuntu-16.04, https://github.com/rancher/rke/issues/316
prevents us from using a AMI where docker is already installed.

At first we tried rebooting in rancher validation/lib/aws.py:
```
        if wait_for_ready:
            nodes = self.wait_for_nodes_state(nodes)
            # hack for instances
            # self.reboot_nodes(nodes)
            # time.sleep(5)
            # nodes = self.wait_for_nodes_state(nodes)
            for node in nodes:
                node.ready_node()
        return nodes
```
After a while I still ran into the issue. If you need to get around this, the setting the ENV variable: DOCKER_INSTALLED=false will instead use
the base ubuntu-16.04 image provided by AWS and install the version of docker specificed by DOCKER_VERSION

## Docker image container-util
I added files images/container-utils as tool to test DNS and Intercommunication between pods/containers. It is a simple flask application, but the image also includes cli tools like 'curl', 'dig', and 'ping'

## Helpful docs:
AWS boto3 package docs:
https://boto3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/services/ec2.html

DigitalOcean package docs:
https://github.com/koalalorenzo/python-digitalocean

Invoke docs (used to run commands like 'kubectl' and 'rke'):
http://docs.pyinvoke.org/en/latest/

Commit message:

Add integration tests for the OKE cluster driver which includes using the meta endpoint for OCI.

tests/validation/readme.md, after:

# Validation scripts for Rancher

Validation tests are run in a similar way to integration tests.

From tests/validation dir:

* Setup virtualenv and enter it
* `pip install -r requirements_v3api.txt`
* Export any needed environment vars, many of these like `CATTLE_TEST_URL` are required. See below for more info.

Now run a test:
* File: `pytest -v -s tests/v3_api/test_app.py`
* Single test:`pytest -k test_tiller`

# General Notes about this framework current status:

## Linting
Uses [Flake8](http://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/) to lint your tests  

## ENV Variables:
If you add any new ENV variables, check the scripts/rke/configure.sh will pass them into the container for Jenkins. Running on your own machine, export these variables as needed.

### General
DEBUG defaults to 'false', Prints the output from kubectl and rke commands when 'true'

### Base Cloud Provider variables:
```
OS_VERSION defaults to 'ubuntu-16.04', Used to select which image to use
DOCKER_VERSION defaults to '1.12.6', Used to select image to use if DOCKER_INSTALLED is 'true'
DOCKER_INSTALLED defaults to 'true', When false, base image is used for OS_VERSION, and docker version DOCKER_VERSION is installed 
```

### Digital Ocean specific variables:
```
DO_ACCESS_KEY no default, your DO access key
```

### AWS specific variables:
```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID no default, your AWS access key id
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY no default, your AWS secret access key
AWS_SSH_KEY_NAME no default, the filename of the private key, e.i. jenkins-rke-validation.pem
AWS_CICD_INSTANCE_TAG defaults to 'rancher-validation', Tags the instance with CICD=AWS_CICD_INSTANCE_TAG
AWS_INSTANCE_TYPE defaults to 't3a.medium', selects the instance type and size
AWS_REGION no default, the region for your ec2 instances
AWS_SUBNET no default, the subnet for your ec2 instances
AWS_VPC no default, the VPC for your ec2 instances
AWS_SG no default, the SG for your ec2 instances
AWS_ZONE no default, the zone for your ec2 instances
AWS_IAM_PROFILE no default, the IAM profile for your ec2 instances
```

### Azure specific variables:
```
AZURE_SUBSCRIPTION_ID no default, your Azure subscription id
AZURE_CLIENT_ID no default, your app / client id
AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET no default, your app / client secret
AZURE_TENANT_ID no default your Azure tenant id, for use with Azure cloud provider
```

### v3_api test variables:
```
CATTLE_TEST_URL no default. The Rancher server for test execution.
ADMIN_TOKEN no default. Required to create resources during test execution
RANCHER_CLEANUP_CLUSTER default true. Cleans up clusters after test execution
RANCHER_CLEANUP_PROJECT default true. Cleans up projects after test execution
RANCHER_CLUSTER_NAME no default. Some tests allow test resources to be created in a specific cluster. If not provided, tests will default to the first cluster found.
```
### vmwarevsphere_driver test
Because our vSphere servers are behind a VPN you will need to connect to the VPN and run these tests from your laptop
or run them from a Rancher installation inside of vSphere. When running locally on your laptop you will need to connect 
the VPN and start an ngrok tunnel and set your SERVER_URL by hand to get vSphere nodes to talk back to the Rancher Server

Environment variables for this test
```
CATTLE_TEST_URL no default. The Rancher server for test execution.
RANCHER_CLUSTER_NAME defaults to a random cluster name if not set
RANCHER_CLEANUP_CLUSTER defaults to "True", set to "False" to leave the cluster after the test
RANCHER_VSPHERE_USERNAME username used to login to vSphere Admin Interface
RANCHER_VSPHERE_PASSWORD password used to login to vSphere Admin Interface
RANCHER_VSPHERE_VCENTER URL of vCenter web interface
RANCHER_VSPHERE_VCENTER_PORT port of vCenter web interface, defaults to 443
RANCHER_ENGINE_INSTALL_URL defaults to https://get.docker.com/, docker installer engine script
RANCHER_CLONE_FROM defaults to ubuntu-bionic-18.04-cloudimg, vm to clone from.
RANCHER_RESOURCE_POOL defaults to the validation-tests pool resource pool to put the vms in
```
### oke_cluster test
Environment variables for the Oracle Container Engine (OKE) cluster test
```
CATTLE_TEST_URL no default. The Rancher server for test execution.
USER_TOKEN user token used for /meta/oci/ calls
RANCHER_OCI_TENANCY_OCID required OCID of the tenancy in which to create the cluster and resources
RANCHER_OCI_COMPARTMENT_OCID required OCID of the compartment in which to create the cluster and resources
RANCHER_OCI_USER_OCID required OCID of a user who has access to the specified tenancy/compartment
RANCHER_OCI_FINGERPRINT URL required fingerprint corresponding to the specified user's private API Key
RANCHER_OCI_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH required private API key path for the specified OCI user, in PEM format
RANCHER_OCI_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSPHRASE required if user private key is protected with a passphrase
RANCHER_OCI_REGION defaults to us-phoenix-1
RANCHER_OKE_VERSION defaults to latest version 
RANCHER_OKE_NODE_SHAPE defaults to random OKE node shape
RANCHER_OKE_NODE_IMAGE defaults to latest Oracle Linux node image
```

## RKE template defaults variables:
```
DEFAULT_K8S_IMAGE defaults to 'rancher/k8s:v1.8.7-rancher1-1', defaults the templates service images
DEFAULT_NETWORK_PLUGIN defaults to 'canal', defaults the templates to use the select network plugin
```

## Passing other pytest command line options
In the Jenkins job parameters PYTEST_OPTIONS can be used to pass additional command line options to pytest like test filtering or run in parallel:

Run tests methods that match 'install_roles'
PYTEST_OPTION = -k install_roles

Run in parallel:
PYTEST_OPTION = -n auto

Multiple options can be passed in '-k install_roles -n auto'

## Issue 316
Currently an issue with Ubuntu-16.04, https://github.com/rancher/rke/issues/316
prevents us from using a AMI where docker is already installed.

At first we tried rebooting in rancher validation/lib/aws.py:
```
        if wait_for_ready:
            nodes = self.wait_for_nodes_state(nodes)
            # hack for instances
            # self.reboot_nodes(nodes)
            # time.sleep(5)
            # nodes = self.wait_for_nodes_state(nodes)
            for node in nodes:
                node.ready_node()
        return nodes
```
After a while I still ran into the issue. If you need to get around this, the setting the ENV variable: DOCKER_INSTALLED=false will instead use
the base ubuntu-16.04 image provided by AWS and install the version of docker specificed by DOCKER_VERSION

## Docker image container-util
I added files images/container-utils as tool to test DNS and Intercommunication between pods/containers. It is a simple flask application, but the image also includes cli tools like 'curl', 'dig', and 'ping'

## Helpful docs:
AWS boto3 package docs:
https://boto3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/services/ec2.html

DigitalOcean package docs:
https://github.com/koalalorenzo/python-digitalocean

Invoke docs (used to run commands like 'kubectl' and 'rke'):
http://docs.pyinvoke.org/en/latest/
